## XI.<br/>THE ADVENTURE OF THE BERYL CORONET

<span style="font-size: 1.50em">&ldquo;H</span>olmes,&rdquo;
said I as I stood one morning in our bow-window looking down the street,
&ldquo;here is a madman coming along. It seems rather sad that his relatives
should allow him to come out alone.&rdquo;

My friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his hands in the pockets
of his dressing-gown, looking over my shoulder. It was a bright, crisp February
morning, and the snow of the day before still lay deep upon the ground,
shimmering brightly in the wintry sun. Down the centre of Baker Street it had
been ploughed into a brown crumbly band by the traffic, but at either side and
on the heaped-up edges of the footpaths it still lay as white as when it fell.
The grey pavement had been cleaned and scraped, but was still dangerously
slippery, so that there were fewer passengers than usual. Indeed, from the
direction of the Metropolitan Station no one was coming save the single
gentleman whose eccentric conduct had drawn my attention.

He was a man of about fifty, tall, portly, and imposing, with a massive,
strongly marked face and a commanding figure. He was dressed in a sombre yet
rich style, in black frock-coat, shining hat, neat brown gaiters, and well-cut
pearl-grey trousers. Yet his actions were in absurd contrast to the dignity of
his dress and features, for he was running hard, with occasional little
springs, such as a weary man gives who is little accustomed to set any tax upon
his legs. As he ran he jerked his hands up and down, waggled his head, and
writhed his face into the most extraordinary contortions.

&ldquo;What on earth can be the matter with him?&rdquo; I asked. &ldquo;He is
looking up at the numbers of the houses.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I believe that he is coming here,&rdquo; said Holmes, rubbing his hands.

&ldquo;Here?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes; I rather think he is coming to consult me professionally. I think
that I recognise the symptoms. Ha! did I not tell you?&rdquo; As he spoke, the
man, puffing and blowing, rushed at our door and pulled at our bell until the
whole house resounded with the clanging.

A few moments later he was in our room, still puffing, still gesticulating, but
with so fixed a look of grief and despair in his eyes that our smiles were
turned in an instant to horror and pity. For a while he could not get his words
out, but swayed his body and plucked at his hair like one who has been driven
to the extreme limits of his reason. Then, suddenly springing to his feet, he
beat his head against the wall with such force that we both rushed upon him and
tore him away to the centre of the room. Sherlock Holmes pushed him down into
the easy-chair and, sitting beside him, patted his hand and chatted with him in
the easy, soothing tones which he knew so well how to employ.

&ldquo;You have come to me to tell your story, have you not?&rdquo; said he.
&ldquo;You are fatigued with your haste. Pray wait until you have recovered
yourself, and then I shall be most happy to look into any little problem which
you may submit to me.&rdquo;

The man sat for a minute or more with a heaving chest, fighting against his
emotion. Then he passed his handkerchief over his brow, set his lips tight, and
turned his face towards us.

&ldquo;No doubt you think me mad?&rdquo; said he.

&ldquo;I see that you have had some great trouble,&rdquo; responded Holmes.

&ldquo;God knows I have!&mdash;a trouble which is enough to unseat my reason,
so sudden and so terrible is it. Public disgrace I might have faced, although I
am a man whose character has never yet borne a stain. Private affliction also
is the lot of every man; but the two coming together, and in so frightful a
form, have been enough to shake my very soul. Besides, it is not I alone. The
very noblest in the land may suffer unless some way be found out of this
horrible affair.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Pray compose yourself, sir,&rdquo; said Holmes, &ldquo;and let me have a
clear account of who you are and what it is that has befallen you.&rdquo;

&ldquo;My name,&rdquo; answered our visitor, &ldquo;is probably familiar to
your ears. I am Alexander Holder, of the banking firm of Holder &amp;
Stevenson, of Threadneedle Street.&rdquo;

The name was indeed well known to us as belonging to the senior partner in the
second largest private banking concern in the City of London. What could have
happened, then, to bring one of the foremost citizens of London to this most
pitiable pass? We waited, all curiosity, until with another effort he braced
himself to tell his story.

&ldquo;I feel that time is of value,&rdquo; said he; &ldquo;that is why I
hastened here when the police inspector suggested that I should secure your
co-operation. I came to Baker Street by the Underground and hurried from there
on foot, for the cabs go slowly through this snow. That is why I was so out of
breath, for I am a man who takes very little exercise. I feel better now, and I
will put the facts before you as shortly and yet as clearly as I can.

&ldquo;It is, of course, well known to you that in a successful banking
business as much depends upon our being able to find remunerative investments
for our funds as upon our increasing our connection and the number of our
depositors. One of our most lucrative means of laying out money is in the shape
of loans, where the security is unimpeachable. We have done a good deal in this
direction during the last few years, and there are many noble families to whom
we have advanced large sums upon the security of their pictures, libraries, or
plate.

&ldquo;Yesterday morning I was seated in my office at the bank when a card was
brought in to me by one of the clerks. I started when I saw the name, for it
was that of none other than&mdash;well, perhaps even to you I had better say no
more than that it was a name which is a household word all over the
earth&mdash;one of the highest, noblest, most exalted names in England. I was
overwhelmed by the honour and attempted, when he entered, to say so, but he
plunged at once into business with the air of a man who wishes to hurry quickly
through a disagreeable task.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Mr. Holder,&rsquo; said he, &lsquo;I have been informed
that you are in the habit of advancing money.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;The firm does so when the security is good.&rsquo; I
answered.

&ldquo;&lsquo;It is absolutely essential to me,&rsquo; said he, &lsquo;that I
should have £ 50,000 at once. I could, of course, borrow so trifling a sum ten
times over from my friends, but I much prefer to make it a matter of business
and to carry out that business myself. In my position you can readily
understand that it is unwise to place one&rsquo;s self under obligations.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;For how long, may I ask, do you want this sum?&rsquo; I
asked.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Next Monday I have a large sum due to me, and I shall then
most certainly repay what you advance, with whatever interest you think it
right to charge. But it is very essential to me that the money should be paid
at once.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;I should be happy to advance it without further parley from
my own private purse,&rsquo; said I, &lsquo;were it not that the strain would
be rather more than it could bear. If, on the other hand, I am to do it in the
name of the firm, then in justice to my partner I must insist that, even in
your case, every businesslike precaution should be taken.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;I should much prefer to have it so,&rsquo; said he, raising
up a square, black morocco case which he had laid beside his chair. &lsquo;You
have doubtless heard of the Beryl Coronet?&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;One of the most precious public possessions of the
empire,&rsquo; said I.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Precisely.&rsquo; He opened the case, and there, imbedded
in soft, flesh-coloured velvet, lay the magnificent piece of jewellery which he
had named. &lsquo;There are thirty-nine enormous beryls,&rsquo; said he,
&lsquo;and the price of the gold chasing is incalculable. The lowest estimate
would put the worth of the coronet at double the sum which I have asked. I am
prepared to leave it with you as my security.&rsquo;

&ldquo;I took the precious case into my hands and looked in some perplexity
from it to my illustrious client.

&ldquo;&lsquo;You doubt its value?&rsquo; he asked.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Not at all. I only doubt&mdash;&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;The propriety of my leaving it. You may set your mind at
rest about that. I should not dream of doing so were it not absolutely certain
that I should be able in four days to reclaim it. It is a pure matter of form.
Is the security sufficient?&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Ample.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;You understand, Mr. Holder, that I am giving you a strong
proof of the confidence which I have in you, founded upon all that I have heard
of you. I rely upon you not only to be discreet and to refrain from all gossip
upon the matter but, above all, to preserve this coronet with every possible
precaution because I need not say that a great public scandal would be caused
if any harm were to befall it. Any injury to it would be almost as serious as
its complete loss, for there are no beryls in the world to match these, and it
would be impossible to replace them. I leave it with you, however, with every
confidence, and I shall call for it in person on Monday morning.&rsquo;

&ldquo;Seeing that my client was anxious to leave, I said no more but, calling
for my cashier, I ordered him to pay over fifty £ 1000 notes. When I was alone
once more, however, with the precious case lying upon the table in front of me,
I could not but think with some misgivings of the immense responsibility which
it entailed upon me. There could be no doubt that, as it was a national
possession, a horrible scandal would ensue if any misfortune should occur to
it. I already regretted having ever consented to take charge of it. However, it
was too late to alter the matter now, so I locked it up in my private safe and
turned once more to my work.

&ldquo;When evening came I felt that it would be an imprudence to leave so
precious a thing in the office behind me. Bankers&rsquo; safes had been forced
before now, and why should not mine be? If so, how terrible would be the
position in which I should find myself! I determined, therefore, that for the
next few days I would always carry the case backward and forward with me, so
that it might never be really out of my reach. With this intention, I called a
cab and drove out to my house at Streatham, carrying the jewel with me. I did
not breathe freely until I had taken it upstairs and locked it in the bureau of
my dressing-room.

&ldquo;And now a word as to my household, Mr. Holmes, for I wish you to
thoroughly understand the situation. My groom and my page sleep out of the
house, and may be set aside altogether. I have three maid-servants who have
been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliability is quite above
suspicion. Another, Lucy Parr, the second waiting-maid, has only been in my
service a few months. She came with an excellent character, however, and has
always given me satisfaction. She is a very pretty girl and has attracted
admirers who have occasionally hung about the place. That is the only drawback
which we have found to her, but we believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in
every way.

&ldquo;So much for the servants. My family itself is so small that it will not
take me long to describe it. I am a widower and have an only son, Arthur. He
has been a disappointment to me, Mr. Holmes&mdash;a grievous disappointment. I
have no doubt that I am myself to blame. People tell me that I have spoiled
him. Very likely I have. When my dear wife died I felt that he was all I had to
love. I could not bear to see the smile fade even for a moment from his face. I
have never denied him a wish. Perhaps it would have been better for both of us
had I been sterner, but I meant it for the best.

&ldquo;It was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in my business,
but he was not of a business turn. He was wild, wayward, and, to speak the
truth, I could not trust him in the handling of large sums of money. When he
was young he became a member of an aristocratic club, and there, having
charming manners, he was soon the intimate of a number of men with long purses
and expensive habits. He learned to play heavily at cards and to squander money
on the turf, until he had again and again to come to me and implore me to give
him an advance upon his allowance, that he might settle his debts of honour. He
tried more than once to break away from the dangerous company which he was
keeping, but each time the influence of his friend, Sir George Burnwell, was
enough to draw him back again.

&ldquo;And, indeed, I could not wonder that such a man as Sir George Burnwell
should gain an influence over him, for he has frequently brought him to my
house, and I have found myself that I could hardly resist the fascination of
his manner. He is older than Arthur, a man of the world to his finger-tips, one
who had been everywhere, seen everything, a brilliant talker, and a man of
great personal beauty. Yet when I think of him in cold blood, far away from the
glamour of his presence, I am convinced from his cynical speech and the look
which I have caught in his eyes that he is one who should be deeply distrusted.
So I think, and so, too, thinks my little Mary, who has a woman&rsquo;s quick
insight into character.

&ldquo;And now there is only she to be described. She is my niece; but when my
brother died five years ago and left her alone in the world I adopted her, and
have looked upon her ever since as my daughter. She is a sunbeam in my
house&mdash;sweet, loving, beautiful, a wonderful manager and housekeeper, yet
as tender and quiet and gentle as a woman could be. She is my right hand. I do
not know what I could do without her. In only one matter has she ever gone
against my wishes. Twice my boy has asked her to marry him, for he loves her
devotedly, but each time she has refused him. I think that if anyone could have
drawn him into the right path it would have been she, and that his marriage
might have changed his whole life; but now, alas! it is too late&mdash;forever
too late!

&ldquo;Now, Mr. Holmes, you know the people who live under my roof, and I shall
continue with my miserable story.

&ldquo;When we were taking coffee in the drawing-room that night after dinner,
I told Arthur and Mary my experience, and of the precious treasure which we had
under our roof, suppressing only the name of my client. Lucy Parr, who had
brought in the coffee, had, I am sure, left the room; but I cannot swear that
the door was closed. Mary and Arthur were much interested and wished to see the
famous coronet, but I thought it better not to disturb it.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Where have you put it?&rsquo; asked Arthur.

&ldquo;&lsquo;In my own bureau.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Well, I hope to goodness the house won&rsquo;t be burgled
during the night.&rsquo; said he.

&ldquo;&lsquo;It is locked up,&rsquo; I answered.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Oh, any old key will fit that bureau. When I was a
youngster I have opened it myself with the key of the box-room cupboard.&rsquo;

&ldquo;He often had a wild way of talking, so that I thought little of what he
said. He followed me to my room, however, that night with a very grave face.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Look here, dad,&rsquo; said he with his eyes cast down,
&lsquo;can you let me have £ 200?&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;No, I cannot!&rsquo; I answered sharply. &lsquo;I have been
far too generous with you in money matters.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;You have been very kind,&rsquo; said he, &lsquo;but I must
have this money, or else I can never show my face inside the club again.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;And a very good thing, too!&rsquo; I cried.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Yes, but you would not have me leave it a dishonoured
man,&rsquo; said he. &lsquo;I could not bear the disgrace. I must raise the
money in some way, and if you will not let me have it, then I must try other
means.&rsquo;

&ldquo;I was very angry, for this was the third demand during the month.
&lsquo;You shall not have a farthing from me,&rsquo; I cried, on which he bowed
and left the room without another word.

&ldquo;When he was gone I unlocked my bureau, made sure that my treasure was
safe, and locked it again. Then I started to go round the house to see that all
was secure&mdash;a duty which I usually leave to Mary but which I thought it
well to perform myself that night. As I came down the stairs I saw Mary herself
at the side window of the hall, which she closed and fastened as I approached.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Tell me, dad,&rsquo; said she, looking, I thought, a little
disturbed, &lsquo;did you give Lucy, the maid, leave to go out to-night?&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Certainly not.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;She came in just now by the back door. I have no doubt that
she has only been to the side gate to see someone, but I think that it is
hardly safe and should be stopped.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;You must speak to her in the morning, or I will if you
prefer it. Are you sure that everything is fastened?&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Quite sure, dad.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Then, good-night.&rsquo; I kissed her and went up to my
bedroom again, where I was soon asleep.

&ldquo;I am endeavouring to tell you everything, Mr. Holmes, which may have any
bearing upon the case, but I beg that you will question me upon any point which
I do not make clear.&rdquo;

&ldquo;On the contrary, your statement is singularly lucid.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I come to a part of my story now in which I should wish to be
particularly so. I am not a very heavy sleeper, and the anxiety in my mind
tended, no doubt, to make me even less so than usual. About two in the morning,
then, I was awakened by some sound in the house. It had ceased ere I was wide
awake, but it had left an impression behind it as though a window had gently
closed somewhere. I lay listening with all my ears. Suddenly, to my horror,
there was a distinct sound of footsteps moving softly in the next room. I
slipped out of bed, all palpitating with fear, and peeped round the corner of
my dressing-room door.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Arthur!&rsquo; I screamed, &lsquo;you villain! you thief!
How dare you touch that coronet?&rsquo;

&ldquo;The gas was half up, as I had left it, and my unhappy boy, dressed only
in his shirt and trousers, was standing beside the light, holding the coronet
in his hands. He appeared to be wrenching at it, or bending it with all his
strength. At my cry he dropped it from his grasp and turned as pale as death. I
snatched it up and examined it. One of the gold corners, with three of the
beryls in it, was missing.

&ldquo;&lsquo;You blackguard!&rsquo; I shouted, beside myself with rage.
&lsquo;You have destroyed it! You have dishonoured me forever! Where are the
jewels which you have stolen?&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Stolen!&rsquo; he cried.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Yes, thief!&rsquo; I roared, shaking him by the shoulder.

&ldquo;&lsquo;There are none missing. There cannot be any missing,&rsquo;
said he.

&ldquo;&lsquo;There are three missing. And you know where they are. Must
I call you a liar as well as a thief? Did I not see you trying to tear off
another piece?&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;You have called me names enough,&rsquo; said he, &lsquo;I
will not stand it any longer. I shall not say another word about this business,
since you have chosen to insult me. I will leave your house in the morning and
make my own way in the world.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;You shall leave it in the hands of the police!&rsquo; I
cried half-mad with grief and rage. &lsquo;I shall have this matter probed to
the bottom.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;You shall learn nothing from me,&rsquo; said he with a
passion such as I should not have thought was in his nature. &lsquo;If you
choose to call the police, let the police find what they can.&rsquo;

&ldquo;By this time the whole house was astir, for I had raised my voice in my
anger. Mary was the first to rush into my room, and, at the sight of the
coronet and of Arthur&rsquo;s face, she read the whole story and, with a
scream, fell down senseless on the ground. I sent the housemaid for the police
and put the investigation into their hands at once. When the inspector and a
constable entered the house, Arthur, who had stood sullenly with his arms
folded, asked me whether it was my intention to charge him with theft. I
answered that it had ceased to be a private matter, but had become a public
one, since the ruined coronet was national property. I was determined that the
law should have its way in everything.

&ldquo;&lsquo;At least,&rsquo; said he, &lsquo;you will not have me
arrested at once. It would be to your advantage as well as mine if I might
leave the house for five minutes.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;That you may get away, or perhaps that you may conceal what
you have stolen,&rsquo; said I. And then, realising the dreadful position in
which I was placed, I implored him to remember that not only my honour but that
of one who was far greater than I was at stake; and that he threatened to raise
a scandal which would convulse the nation. He might avert it all if he would
but tell me what he had done with the three missing stones.

&ldquo;&lsquo;You may as well face the matter,&rsquo; said I; &lsquo;you
have been caught in the act, and no confession could make your guilt more
heinous. If you but make such reparation as is in your power, by telling us
where the beryls are, all shall be forgiven and forgotten.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Keep your forgiveness for those who ask for it,&rsquo; he
answered, turning away from me with a sneer. I saw that he was too hardened for
any words of mine to influence him. There was but one way for it. I called in
the inspector and gave him into custody. A search was made at once not only of
his person but of his room and of every portion of the house where he could
possibly have concealed the gems; but no trace of them could be found, nor
would the wretched boy open his mouth for all our persuasions and our threats.
This morning he was removed to a cell, and I, after going through all the
police formalities, have hurried round to you to implore you to use your skill
in unravelling the matter. The police have openly confessed that they can at
present make nothing of it. You may go to any expense which you think
necessary. I have already offered a reward of £ 1000. My God, what shall I do!
I have lost my honour, my gems, and my son in one night. Oh, what shall I
do!&rdquo;

He put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to and fro, droning
to himself like a child whose grief has got beyond words.

Sherlock Holmes sat silent for some few minutes, with his brows knitted and his
eyes fixed upon the fire.

&ldquo;Do you receive much company?&rdquo; he asked.

&ldquo;None save my partner with his family and an occasional friend of
Arthur&rsquo;s. Sir George Burnwell has been several times lately. No one else,
I think.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Do you go out much in society?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Arthur does. Mary and I stay at home. We neither of us care for
it.&rdquo;

&ldquo;That is unusual in a young girl.&rdquo;

&ldquo;She is of a quiet nature. Besides, she is not so very young. She is
four-and-twenty.&rdquo;

&ldquo;This matter, from what you say, seems to have been a shock to her
also.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Terrible! She is even more affected than I.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You have neither of you any doubt as to your son&rsquo;s guilt?&rdquo;

&ldquo;How can we have when I saw him with my own eyes with the coronet in his
hands.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I hardly consider that a conclusive proof. Was the remainder of the
coronet at all injured?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, it was twisted.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Do you not think, then, that he might have been trying to straighten
it?&rdquo;

&ldquo;God bless you! You are doing what you can for him and for me. But it is
too heavy a task. What was he doing there at all? If his purpose were innocent,
why did he not say so?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Precisely. And if it were guilty, why did he not invent a lie? His
silence appears to me to cut both ways. There are several singular points about
the case. What did the police think of the noise which awoke you from your
sleep?&rdquo;

&ldquo;They considered that it might be caused by Arthur&rsquo;s closing his
bedroom door.&rdquo;

&ldquo;A likely story! As if a man bent on felony would slam his door so as to
wake a household. What did they say, then, of the disappearance of these
gems?&rdquo;

&ldquo;They are still sounding the planking and probing the furniture in the
hope of finding them.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Have they thought of looking outside the house?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, they have shown extraordinary energy. The whole garden has already
been minutely examined.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Now, my dear sir,&rdquo; said Holmes, &ldquo;is it not obvious to you
now that this matter really strikes very much deeper than either you or the
police were at first inclined to think? It appeared to you to be a simple case;
to me it seems exceedingly complex. Consider what is involved by your theory.
You suppose that your son came down from his bed, went, at great risk, to your
dressing-room, opened your bureau, took out your coronet, broke off by main
force a small portion of it, went off to some other place, concealed three gems
out of the thirty-nine, with such skill that nobody can find them, and then
returned with the other thirty-six into the room in which he exposed himself to
the greatest danger of being discovered. I ask you now, is such a theory
tenable?&rdquo;

&ldquo;But what other is there?&rdquo; cried the banker with a gesture of
despair. &ldquo;If his motives were innocent, why does he not explain
them?&rdquo;

&ldquo;It is our task to find that out,&rdquo; replied Holmes; &ldquo;so now,
if you please, Mr. Holder, we will set off for Streatham together, and devote
an hour to glancing a little more closely into details.&rdquo;

My friend insisted upon my accompanying them in their expedition, which I was
eager enough to do, for my curiosity and sympathy were deeply stirred by the
story to which we had listened. I confess that the guilt of the banker&rsquo;s
son appeared to me to be as obvious as it did to his unhappy father, but still
I had such faith in Holmes&rsquo; judgment that I felt that there must be some
grounds for hope as long as he was dissatisfied with the accepted explanation.
He hardly spoke a word the whole way out to the southern suburb, but sat with
his chin upon his breast and his hat drawn over his eyes, sunk in the deepest
thought. Our client appeared to have taken fresh heart at the little glimpse of
hope which had been presented to him, and he even broke into a desultory chat
with me over his business affairs. A short railway journey and a shorter walk
brought us to Fairbank, the modest residence of the great financier.

Fairbank was a good-sized square house of white stone, standing back a little
from the road. A double carriage-sweep, with a snow-clad lawn, stretched down
in front to two large iron gates which closed the entrance. On the right side
was a small wooden thicket, which led into a narrow path between two neat
hedges stretching from the road to the kitchen door, and forming the
tradesmen&rsquo;s entrance. On the left ran a lane which led to the stables,
and was not itself within the grounds at all, being a public, though little
used, thoroughfare. Holmes left us standing at the door and walked slowly all
round the house, across the front, down the tradesmen&rsquo;s path, and so
round by the garden behind into the stable lane. So long was he that Mr. Holder
and I went into the dining-room and waited by the fire until he should return.
We were sitting there in silence when the door opened and a young lady came in.
She was rather above the middle height, slim, with dark hair and eyes, which
seemed the darker against the absolute pallor of her skin. I do not think that
I have ever seen such deadly paleness in a woman&rsquo;s face. Her lips, too,
were bloodless, but her eyes were flushed with crying. As she swept silently
into the room she impressed me with a greater sense of grief than the banker
had done in the morning, and it was the more striking in her as she was
evidently a woman of strong character, with immense capacity for
self-restraint. Disregarding my presence, she went straight to her uncle and
passed her hand over his head with a sweet womanly caress.

&ldquo;You have given orders that Arthur should be liberated, have you not,
dad?&rdquo; she asked.

&ldquo;No, no, my girl, the matter must be probed to the bottom.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But I am so sure that he is innocent. You know what woman&rsquo;s
instincts are. I know that he has done no harm and that you will be sorry for
having acted so harshly.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Why is he silent, then, if he is innocent?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Who knows? Perhaps because he was so angry that you should suspect
him.&rdquo;

&ldquo;How could I help suspecting him, when I actually saw him with the
coronet in his hand?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, but he had only picked it up to look at it. Oh, do, do take my word
for it that he is innocent. Let the matter drop and say no more. It is so
dreadful to think of our dear Arthur in prison!&rdquo;

&ldquo;I shall never let it drop until the gems are found&mdash;never, Mary!
Your affection for Arthur blinds you as to the awful consequences to me. Far
from hushing the thing up, I have brought a gentleman down from London to
inquire more deeply into it.&rdquo;

&ldquo;This gentleman?&rdquo; she asked, facing round to me.

&ldquo;No, his friend. He wished us to leave him alone. He is round in the
stable lane now.&rdquo;

&ldquo;The stable lane?&rdquo; She raised her dark eyebrows. &ldquo;What can he
hope to find there? Ah! this, I suppose, is he. I trust, sir, that you will
succeed in proving, what I feel sure is the truth, that my cousin Arthur is
innocent of this crime.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I fully share your opinion, and I trust, with you, that we may prove
it,&rdquo; returned Holmes, going back to the mat to knock the snow from his
shoes. &ldquo;I believe I have the honour of addressing Miss Mary Holder. Might
I ask you a question or two?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Pray do, sir, if it may help to clear this horrible affair up.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You heard nothing yourself last night?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Nothing, until my uncle here began to speak loudly. I heard that, and I
came down.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You shut up the windows and doors the night before. Did you fasten all
the windows?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Were they all fastened this morning?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You have a maid who has a sweetheart? I think that you remarked to your
uncle last night that she had been out to see him?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, and she was the girl who waited in the drawing-room, and who may
have heard uncle&rsquo;s remarks about the coronet.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I see. You infer that she may have gone out to tell her sweetheart, and
that the two may have planned the robbery.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But what is the good of all these vague theories,&rdquo; cried the
banker impatiently, &ldquo;when I have told you that I saw Arthur with the
coronet in his hands?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Wait a little, Mr. Holder. We must come back to that. About this girl,
Miss Holder. You saw her return by the kitchen door, I presume?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes; when I went to see if the door was fastened for the night I met her
slipping in. I saw the man, too, in the gloom.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Do you know him?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, yes! he is the greengrocer who brings our vegetables round. His
name is Francis Prosper.&rdquo;

&ldquo;He stood,&rdquo; said Holmes, &ldquo;to the left of the door&mdash;that
is to say, farther up the path than is necessary to reach the door?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, he did.&rdquo;

&ldquo;And he is a man with a wooden leg?&rdquo;

Something like fear sprang up in the young lady&rsquo;s expressive black eyes.
&ldquo;Why, you are like a magician,&rdquo; said she. &ldquo;How do you know
that?&rdquo; She smiled, but there was no answering smile in Holmes&rsquo;
thin, eager face.

&ldquo;I should be very glad now to go upstairs,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;I shall
probably wish to go over the outside of the house again. Perhaps I had better
take a look at the lower windows before I go up.&rdquo;

He walked swiftly round from one to the other, pausing only at the large one
which looked from the hall onto the stable lane. This he opened and made a very
careful examination of the sill with his powerful magnifying lens. &ldquo;Now
we shall go upstairs,&rdquo; said he at last.

The banker&rsquo;s dressing-room was a plainly furnished little chamber, with a
grey carpet, a large bureau, and a long mirror. Holmes went to the bureau first
and looked hard at the lock.

&ldquo;Which key was used to open it?&rdquo; he asked.

&ldquo;That which my son himself indicated&mdash;that of the cupboard of the
lumber-room.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Have you it here?&rdquo;

&ldquo;That is it on the dressing-table.&rdquo;

Sherlock Holmes took it up and opened the bureau.

&ldquo;It is a noiseless lock,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;It is no wonder that it
did not wake you. This case, I presume, contains the coronet. We must have a
look at it.&rdquo; He opened the case, and taking out the diadem he laid it
upon the table. It was a magnificent specimen of the jeweller&rsquo;s art, and
the thirty-six stones were the finest that I have ever seen. At one side of the
coronet was a cracked edge, where a corner holding three gems had been torn
away.

&ldquo;Now, Mr. Holder,&rdquo; said Holmes, &ldquo;here is the corner which
corresponds to that which has been so unfortunately lost. Might I beg that you
will break it off.&rdquo;

The banker recoiled in horror. &ldquo;I should not dream of trying,&rdquo; said
he.

&ldquo;Then I will.&rdquo; Holmes suddenly bent his strength upon it, but
without result. &ldquo;I feel it give a little,&rdquo; said he; &ldquo;but,
though I am exceptionally strong in the fingers, it would take me all my time
to break it. An ordinary man could not do it. Now, what do you think would
happen if I did break it, Mr. Holder? There would be a noise like a pistol
shot. Do you tell me that all this happened within a few yards of your bed and
that you heard nothing of it?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I do not know what to think. It is all dark to me.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But perhaps it may grow lighter as we go. What do you think, Miss
Holder?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I confess that I still share my uncle&rsquo;s perplexity.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Your son had no shoes or slippers on when you saw him?&rdquo;

&ldquo;He had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Thank you. We have certainly been favoured with extraordinary luck
during this inquiry, and it will be entirely our own fault if we do not succeed
in clearing the matter up. With your permission, Mr. Holder, I shall now
continue my investigations outside.&rdquo;

He went alone, at his own request, for he explained that any unnecessary
footmarks might make his task more difficult. For an hour or more he was at
work, returning at last with his feet heavy with snow and his features as
inscrutable as ever.

&ldquo;I think that I have seen now all that there is to see, Mr.
Holder,&rdquo; said he; &ldquo;I can serve you best by returning to my
rooms.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But the gems, Mr. Holmes. Where are they?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I cannot tell.&rdquo;

The banker wrung his hands. &ldquo;I shall never see them again!&rdquo; he
cried. &ldquo;And my son? You give me hopes?&rdquo;

&ldquo;My opinion is in no way altered.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Then, for God&rsquo;s sake, what was this dark business which was acted
in my house last night?&rdquo;

&ldquo;If you can call upon me at my Baker Street rooms to-morrow morning
between nine and ten I shall be happy to do what I can to make it clearer. I
understand that you give me *carte blanche* to act for you, provided only
that I get back the gems, and that you place no limit on the sum I may
draw.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I would give my fortune to have them back.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Very good. I shall look into the matter between this and then. Good-bye;
it is just possible that I may have to come over here again before
evening.&rdquo;

It was obvious to me that my companion&rsquo;s mind was now made up about the
case, although what his conclusions were was more than I could even dimly
imagine. Several times during our homeward journey I endeavoured to sound him
upon the point, but he always glided away to some other topic, until at last I
gave it over in despair. It was not yet three when we found ourselves in our
rooms once more. He hurried to his chamber and was down again in a few minutes
dressed as a common loafer. With his collar turned up, his shiny, seedy coat,
his red cravat, and his worn boots, he was a perfect sample of the class.

&ldquo;I think that this should do,&rdquo; said he, glancing into the glass
above the fireplace. &ldquo;I only wish that you could come with me, Watson,
but I fear that it won&rsquo;t do. I may be on the trail in this matter, or I
may be following a will-o&rsquo;-the-wisp, but I shall soon know which it is. I
hope that I may be back in a few hours.&rdquo; He cut a slice of beef from the
joint upon the sideboard, sandwiched it between two rounds of bread, and
thrusting this rude meal into his pocket he started off upon his expedition.

I had just finished my tea when he returned, evidently in excellent spirits,
swinging an old elastic-sided boot in his hand. He chucked it down into a
corner and helped himself to a cup of tea.

&ldquo;I only looked in as I passed,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;I am going right
on.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Where to?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, to the other side of the West End. It may be some time before I get
back. Don&rsquo;t wait up for me in case I should be late.&rdquo;

&ldquo;How are you getting on?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, so so. Nothing to complain of. I have been out to Streatham since I
saw you last, but I did not call at the house. It is a very sweet little
problem, and I would not have missed it for a good deal. However, I must not
sit gossiping here, but must get these disreputable clothes off and return to
my highly respectable self.&rdquo;

I could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons for satisfaction than
his words alone would imply. His eyes twinkled, and there was even a touch of
colour upon his sallow cheeks. He hastened upstairs, and a few minutes later I
heard the slam of the hall door, which told me that he was off once more upon
his congenial hunt.

I waited until midnight, but there was no sign of his return, so I retired to
my room. It was no uncommon thing for him to be away for days and nights on end
when he was hot upon a scent, so that his lateness caused me no surprise. I do
not know at what hour he came in, but when I came down to breakfast in the
morning there he was with a cup of coffee in one hand and the paper in the
other, as fresh and trim as possible.

&ldquo;You will excuse my beginning without you, Watson,&rdquo; said he,
&ldquo;but you remember that our client has rather an early appointment this
morning.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Why, it is after nine now,&rdquo; I answered. &ldquo;I should not be
surprised if that were he. I thought I heard a ring.&rdquo;

It was, indeed, our friend the financier. I was shocked by the change which had
come over him, for his face which was naturally of a broad and massive mould,
was now pinched and fallen in, while his hair seemed to me at least a shade
whiter. He entered with a weariness and lethargy which was even more painful
than his violence of the morning before, and he dropped heavily into the
armchair which I pushed forward for him.

&ldquo;I do not know what I have done to be so severely tried,&rdquo; said he.
&ldquo;Only two days ago I was a happy and prosperous man, without a care in
the world. Now I am left to a lonely and dishonoured age. One sorrow comes
close upon the heels of another. My niece, Mary, has deserted me.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Deserted you?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes. Her bed this morning had not been slept in, her room was empty, and
a note for me lay upon the hall table. I had said to her last night, in sorrow
and not in anger, that if she had married my boy all might have been well with
him. Perhaps it was thoughtless of me to say so. It is to that remark that she
refers in this note:

<p class="letter">
&ldquo;&lsquo;MY DEAREST UNCLE,&mdash;I feel that I have brought trouble
upon you, and that if I had acted differently this terrible misfortune might
never have occurred. I cannot, with this thought in my mind, ever again be
happy under your roof, and I feel that I must leave you forever. Do not worry
about my future, for that is provided for; and, above all, do not search for
me, for it will be fruitless labour and an ill-service to me. In life or in
death, I am ever your loving,
</p>

<p class="right">
&ldquo;&lsquo;MARY.&rsquo;
</p>

---

<p class="p2">
&ldquo;What could she mean by that note, Mr. Holmes? Do you think it points to
suicide?&rdquo;
</p>

&ldquo;No, no, nothing of the kind. It is perhaps the best possible solution. I
trust, Mr. Holder, that you are nearing the end of your troubles.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Ha! You say so! You have heard something, Mr. Holmes; you have learned
something! Where are the gems?&rdquo;

&ldquo;You would not think £ 1000 apiece an excessive sum for
them?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I would pay ten.&rdquo;

&ldquo;That would be unnecessary. Three thousand will cover the matter. And
there is a little reward, I fancy. Have you your cheque-book? Here is a pen.
Better make it out for £ 4000.&rdquo;

With a dazed face the banker made out the required check. Holmes walked over to
his desk, took out a little triangular piece of gold with three gems in it, and
threw it down upon the table.

With a shriek of joy our client clutched it up.

&ldquo;You have it!&rdquo; he gasped. &ldquo;I am saved! I am saved!&rdquo;

The reaction of joy was as passionate as his grief had been, and he hugged his
recovered gems to his bosom.

&ldquo;There is one other thing you owe, Mr. Holder,&rdquo; said Sherlock
Holmes rather sternly.

&ldquo;Owe!&rdquo; He caught up a pen. &ldquo;Name the sum, and I will pay
it.&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, the debt is not to me. You owe a very humble apology to that noble
lad, your son, who has carried himself in this matter as I should be proud to
see my own son do, should I ever chance to have one.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Then it was not Arthur who took them?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I told you yesterday, and I repeat to-day, that it was not.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You are sure of it! Then let us hurry to him at once to let him know
that the truth is known.&rdquo;

&ldquo;He knows it already. When I had cleared it all up I had an interview
with him, and finding that he would not tell me the story, I told it to him, on
which he had to confess that I was right and to add the very few details which
were not yet quite clear to me. Your news of this morning, however, may open
his lips.&rdquo;

&ldquo;For Heaven&rsquo;s sake, tell me, then, what is this extraordinary
mystery!&rdquo;

&ldquo;I will do so, and I will show you the steps by which I reached it. And
let me say to you, first, that which it is hardest for me to say and for you to
hear: there has been an understanding between Sir George Burnwell and your
niece Mary. They have now fled together.&rdquo;

&ldquo;My Mary? Impossible!&rdquo;

&ldquo;It is unfortunately more than possible; it is certain. Neither you nor
your son knew the true character of this man when you admitted him into your
family circle. He is one of the most dangerous men in England&mdash;a ruined
gambler, an absolutely desperate villain, a man without heart or conscience.
Your niece knew nothing of such men. When he breathed his vows to her, as he
had done to a hundred before her, she flattered herself that she alone had
touched his heart. The devil knows best what he said, but at least she became
his tool and was in the habit of seeing him nearly every evening.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I cannot, and I will not, believe it!&rdquo; cried the banker with an
ashen face.

&ldquo;I will tell you, then, what occurred in your house last night. Your
niece, when you had, as she thought, gone to your room, slipped down and talked
to her lover through the window which leads into the stable lane. His footmarks
had pressed right through the snow, so long had he stood there. She told him of
the coronet. His wicked lust for gold kindled at the news, and he bent her to
his will. I have no doubt that she loved you, but there are women in whom the
love of a lover extinguishes all other loves, and I think that she must have
been one. She had hardly listened to his instructions when she saw you coming
downstairs, on which she closed the window rapidly and told you about one of
the servants&rsquo; escapade with her wooden-legged lover, which was all
perfectly true.

&ldquo;Your boy, Arthur, went to bed after his interview with you but he slept
badly on account of his uneasiness about his club debts. In the middle of the
night he heard a soft tread pass his door, so he rose and, looking out, was
surprised to see his cousin walking very stealthily along the passage until she
disappeared into your dressing-room. Petrified with astonishment, the lad
slipped on some clothes and waited there in the dark to see what would come of
this strange affair. Presently she emerged from the room again, and in the
light of the passage-lamp your son saw that she carried the precious coronet in
her hands. She passed down the stairs, and he, thrilling with horror, ran along
and slipped behind the curtain near your door, whence he could see what passed
in the hall beneath. He saw her stealthily open the window, hand out the
coronet to someone in the gloom, and then closing it once more hurry back to
her room, passing quite close to where he stood hid behind the curtain.

&ldquo;As long as she was on the scene he could not take any action without a
horrible exposure of the woman whom he loved. But the instant that she was gone
he realised how crushing a misfortune this would be for you, and how
all-important it was to set it right. He rushed down, just as he was, in his
bare feet, opened the window, sprang out into the snow, and ran down the lane,
where he could see a dark figure in the moonlight. Sir George Burnwell tried to
get away, but Arthur caught him, and there was a struggle between them, your
lad tugging at one side of the coronet, and his opponent at the other. In the
scuffle, your son struck Sir George and cut him over the eye. Then something
suddenly snapped, and your son, finding that he had the coronet in his hands,
rushed back, closed the window, ascended to your room, and had just observed
that the coronet had been twisted in the struggle and was endeavouring to
straighten it when you appeared upon the scene.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Is it possible?&rdquo; gasped the banker.

&ldquo;You then roused his anger by calling him names at a moment when he felt
that he had deserved your warmest thanks. He could not explain the true state
of affairs without betraying one who certainly deserved little enough
consideration at his hands. He took the more chivalrous view, however, and
preserved her secret.&rdquo;

&ldquo;And that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the
coronet,&rdquo; cried Mr. Holder. &ldquo;Oh, my God! what a blind fool I have
been! And his asking to be allowed to go out for five minutes! The dear fellow
wanted to see if the missing piece were at the scene of the struggle. How
cruelly I have misjudged him!&rdquo;

&ldquo;When I arrived at the house,&rdquo; continued Holmes, &ldquo;I at once
went very carefully round it to observe if there were any traces in the snow
which might help me. I knew that none had fallen since the evening before, and
also that there had been a strong frost to preserve impressions. I passed along
the tradesmen&rsquo;s path, but found it all trampled down and
indistinguishable. Just beyond it, however, at the far side of the kitchen
door, a woman had stood and talked with a man, whose round impressions on one
side showed that he had a wooden leg. I could even tell that they had been
disturbed, for the woman had run back swiftly to the door, as was shown by the
deep toe and light heel marks, while Wooden-leg had waited a little, and then
had gone away. I thought at the time that this might be the maid and her
sweetheart, of whom you had already spoken to me, and inquiry showed it was so.
I passed round the garden without seeing anything more than random tracks,
which I took to be the police; but when I got into the stable lane a very long
and complex story was written in the snow in front of me.

&ldquo;There was a double line of tracks of a booted man, and a second double
line which I saw with delight belonged to a man with naked feet. I was at once
convinced from what you had told me that the latter was your son. The first had
walked both ways, but the other had run swiftly, and as his tread was marked in
places over the depression of the boot, it was obvious that he had passed after
the other. I followed them up and found they led to the hall window, where
Boots had worn all the snow away while waiting. Then I walked to the other end,
which was a hundred yards or more down the lane. I saw where Boots had faced
round, where the snow was cut up as though there had been a struggle, and,
finally, where a few drops of blood had fallen, to show me that I was not
mistaken. Boots had then run down the lane, and another little smudge of blood
showed that it was he who had been hurt. When he came to the highroad at the
other end, I found that the pavement had been cleared, so there was an end to
that clue.

&ldquo;On entering the house, however, I examined, as you remember, the sill
and framework of the hall window with my lens, and I could at once see that
someone had passed out. I could distinguish the outline of an instep where the
wet foot had been placed in coming in. I was then beginning to be able to form
an opinion as to what had occurred. A man had waited outside the window;
someone had brought the gems; the deed had been overseen by your son; he had
pursued the thief; had struggled with him; they had each tugged at the coronet,
their united strength causing injuries which neither alone could have effected.
He had returned with the prize, but had left a fragment in the grasp of his
opponent. So far I was clear. The question now was, who was the man and who was
it brought him the coronet?

&ldquo;It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the impossible,
whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth. Now, I knew that it
was not you who had brought it down, so there only remained your niece and the
maids. But if it were the maids, why should your son allow himself to be
accused in their place? There could be no possible reason. As he loved his
cousin, however, there was an excellent explanation why he should retain her
secret&mdash;the more so as the secret was a disgraceful one. When I remembered
that you had seen her at that window, and how she had fainted on seeing the
coronet again, my conjecture became a certainty.

&ldquo;And who could it be who was her confederate? A lover evidently, for who
else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must feel to you? I knew
that you went out little, and that your circle of friends was a very limited
one. But among them was Sir George Burnwell. I had heard of him before as being
a man of evil reputation among women. It must have been he who wore those boots
and retained the missing gems. Even though he knew that Arthur had discovered
him, he might still flatter himself that he was safe, for the lad could not say
a word without compromising his own family.

&ldquo;Well, your own good sense will suggest what measures I took next. I went
in the shape of a loafer to Sir George&rsquo;s house, managed to pick up an
acquaintance with his valet, learned that his master had cut his head the night
before, and, finally, at the expense of six shillings, made all sure by buying
a pair of his cast-off shoes. With these I journeyed down to Streatham and saw
that they exactly fitted the tracks.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I saw an ill-dressed vagabond in the lane yesterday evening,&rdquo; said
Mr. Holder.

&ldquo;Precisely. It was I. I found that I had my man, so I came home and
changed my clothes. It was a delicate part which I had to play then, for I saw
that a prosecution must be avoided to avert scandal, and I knew that so astute
a villain would see that our hands were tied in the matter. I went and saw him.
At first, of course, he denied everything. But when I gave him every particular
that had occurred, he tried to bluster and took down a life-preserver from the
wall. I knew my man, however, and I clapped a pistol to his head before he
could strike. Then he became a little more reasonable. I told him that we would
give him a price for the stones he held&mdash;£ 1000 apiece. That brought out
the first signs of grief that he had shown. &lsquo;Why, dash it all!&rsquo;
said he, &lsquo;I&rsquo;ve let them go at six hundred for the three!&rsquo; I
soon managed to get the address of the receiver who had them, on promising him
that there would be no prosecution. Off I set to him, and after much chaffering
I got our stones at £ 1000 apiece. Then I looked in upon your son, told him
that all was right, and eventually got to my bed about two o&rsquo;clock, after
what I may call a really hard day&rsquo;s work.&rdquo;

&ldquo;A day which has saved England from a great public scandal,&rdquo; said
the banker, rising. &ldquo;Sir, I cannot find words to thank you, but you shall
not find me ungrateful for what you have done. Your skill has indeed exceeded
all that I have heard of it. And now I must fly to my dear boy to apologise to
him for the wrong which I have done him. As to what you tell me of poor Mary,
it goes to my very heart. Not even your skill can inform me where she is
now.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I think that we may safely say,&rdquo; returned Holmes, &ldquo;that she
is wherever Sir George Burnwell is. It is equally certain, too, that whatever
her sins are, they will soon receive a more than sufficient punishment.&rdquo;
