## VII.<br/>THE ADVENTURE OF THE BLUE CARBUNCLE

<span style="font-size: 1.50em">I</span> had called upon my
friend Sherlock Holmes upon the second morning after Christmas, with the
intention of wishing him the compliments of the season. He was lounging upon
the sofa in a purple dressing-gown, a pipe-rack within his reach upon the
right, and a pile of crumpled morning papers, evidently newly studied, near at
hand. Beside the couch was a wooden chair, and on the angle of the back hung a
very seedy and disreputable hard-felt hat, much the worse for wear, and cracked
in several places. A lens and a forceps lying upon the seat of the chair
suggested that the hat had been suspended in this manner for the purpose of
examination.

&ldquo;You are engaged,&rdquo; said I; &ldquo;perhaps I interrupt you.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Not at all. I am glad to have a friend with whom I can discuss my
results. The matter is a perfectly trivial one&rdquo;&mdash;he jerked his thumb
in the direction of the old hat&mdash;&ldquo;but there are points in connection
with it which are not entirely devoid of interest and even of
instruction.&rdquo;

I seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before his crackling fire,
for a sharp frost had set in, and the windows were thick with the ice crystals.
&ldquo;I suppose,&rdquo; I remarked, &ldquo;that, homely as it looks, this
thing has some deadly story linked on to it&mdash;that it is the clue which
will guide you in the solution of some mystery and the punishment of some
crime.&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, no. No crime,&rdquo; said Sherlock Holmes, laughing. &ldquo;Only one
of those whimsical little incidents which will happen when you have four
million human beings all jostling each other within the space of a few square
miles. Amid the action and reaction of so dense a swarm of humanity, every
possible combination of events may be expected to take place, and many a little
problem will be presented which may be striking and bizarre without being
criminal. We have already had experience of such.&rdquo;

&ldquo;So much so,&rdquo; I remarked, &ldquo;that of the last six cases which I
have added to my notes, three have been entirely free of any legal
crime.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Precisely. You allude to my attempt to recover the Irene Adler papers,
to the singular case of Miss Mary Sutherland, and to the adventure of the man
with the twisted lip. Well, I have no doubt that this small matter will fall
into the same innocent category. You know Peterson, the commissionaire?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;

&ldquo;It is to him that this trophy belongs.&rdquo;

&ldquo;It is his hat.&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, no, he found it. Its owner is unknown. I beg that you will look upon
it not as a battered billycock but as an intellectual problem. And, first, as
to how it came here. It arrived upon Christmas morning, in company with a good
fat goose, which is, I have no doubt, roasting at this moment in front of
Peterson&rsquo;s fire. The facts are these: about four o&rsquo;clock on
Christmas morning, Peterson, who, as you know, is a very honest fellow, was
returning from some small jollification and was making his way homeward down
Tottenham Court Road. In front of him he saw, in the gaslight, a tallish man,
walking with a slight stagger, and carrying a white goose slung over his
shoulder. As he reached the corner of Goodge Street, a row broke out between
this stranger and a little knot of roughs. One of the latter knocked off the
man&rsquo;s hat, on which he raised his stick to defend himself and, swinging
it over his head, smashed the shop window behind him. Peterson had rushed
forward to protect the stranger from his assailants; but the man, shocked at
having broken the window, and seeing an official-looking person in uniform
rushing towards him, dropped his goose, took to his heels, and vanished amid
the labyrinth of small streets which lie at the back of Tottenham Court Road.
The roughs had also fled at the appearance of Peterson, so that he was left in
possession of the field of battle, and also of the spoils of victory in the
shape of this battered hat and a most unimpeachable Christmas goose.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Which surely he restored to their owner?&rdquo;

&ldquo;My dear fellow, there lies the problem. It is true that &lsquo;For Mrs.
Henry Baker&rsquo; was printed upon a small card which was tied to the
bird&rsquo;s left leg, and it is also true that the initials &lsquo;H.
B.&rsquo; are legible upon the lining of this hat, but as there are some
thousands of Bakers, and some hundreds of Henry Bakers in this city of ours, it
is not easy to restore lost property to any one of them.&rdquo;

&ldquo;What, then, did Peterson do?&rdquo;

&ldquo;He brought round both hat and goose to me on Christmas morning, knowing
that even the smallest problems are of interest to me. The goose we retained
until this morning, when there were signs that, in spite of the slight frost,
it would be well that it should be eaten without unnecessary delay. Its finder
has carried it off, therefore, to fulfil the ultimate destiny of a goose, while
I continue to retain the hat of the unknown gentleman who lost his Christmas
dinner.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Did he not advertise?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Then, what clue could you have as to his identity?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Only as much as we can deduce.&rdquo;

&ldquo;From his hat?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Precisely.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But you are joking. What can you gather from this old battered
felt?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Here is my lens. You know my methods. What can you gather yourself as to
the individuality of the man who has worn this article?&rdquo;

I took the tattered object in my hands and turned it over rather ruefully. It
was a very ordinary black hat of the usual round shape, hard and much the worse
for wear. The lining had been of red silk, but was a good deal discoloured.
There was no maker&rsquo;s name; but, as Holmes had remarked, the initials
&ldquo;H. B.&rdquo; were scrawled upon one side. It was pierced in the brim for
a hat-securer, but the elastic was missing. For the rest, it was cracked,
exceedingly dusty, and spotted in several places, although there seemed to have
been some attempt to hide the discoloured patches by smearing them with ink.

&ldquo;I can see nothing,&rdquo; said I, handing it back to my friend.

&ldquo;On the contrary, Watson, you can see everything. You fail, however, to
reason from what you see. You are too timid in drawing your inferences.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Then, pray tell me what it is that you can infer from this hat?&rdquo;

He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective fashion which was
characteristic of him. &ldquo;It is perhaps less suggestive than it might have
been,&rdquo; he remarked, &ldquo;and yet there are a few inferences which are
very distinct, and a few others which represent at least a strong balance of
probability. That the man was highly intellectual is of course obvious upon the
face of it, and also that he was fairly well-to-do within the last three years,
although he has now fallen upon evil days. He had foresight, but has less now
than formerly, pointing to a moral retrogression, which, when taken with the
decline of his fortunes, seems to indicate some evil influence, probably drink,
at work upon him. This may account also for the obvious fact that his wife has
ceased to love him.&rdquo;

&ldquo;My dear Holmes!&rdquo;

&ldquo;He has, however, retained some degree of self-respect,&rdquo; he
continued, disregarding my remonstrance. &ldquo;He is a man who leads a
sedentary life, goes out little, is out of training entirely, is middle-aged,
has grizzled hair which he has had cut within the last few days, and which he
anoints with lime-cream. These are the more patent facts which are to be
deduced from his hat. Also, by the way, that it is extremely improbable that he
has gas laid on in his house.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You are certainly joking, Holmes.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Not in the least. Is it possible that even now, when I give you these
results, you are unable to see how they are attained?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I have no doubt that I am very stupid, but I must confess that I am
unable to follow you. For example, how did you deduce that this man was
intellectual?&rdquo;

For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head. It came right over the
forehead and settled upon the bridge of his nose. &ldquo;It is a question of
cubic capacity,&rdquo; said he; &ldquo;a man with so large a brain must have
something in it.&rdquo;

&ldquo;The decline of his fortunes, then?&rdquo;

&ldquo;This hat is three years old. These flat brims curled at the edge came in
then. It is a hat of the very best quality. Look at the band of ribbed silk and
the excellent lining. If this man could afford to buy so expensive a hat three
years ago, and has had no hat since, then he has assuredly gone down in the
world.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, that is clear enough, certainly. But how about the foresight and
the moral retrogression?&rdquo;

Sherlock Holmes laughed. &ldquo;Here is the foresight,&rdquo; said he putting
his finger upon the little disc and loop of the hat-securer. &ldquo;They are
never sold upon hats. If this man ordered one, it is a sign of a certain amount
of foresight, since he went out of his way to take this precaution against the
wind. But since we see that he has broken the elastic and has not troubled to
replace it, it is obvious that he has less foresight now than formerly, which
is a distinct proof of a weakening nature. On the other hand, he has
endeavoured to conceal some of these stains upon the felt by daubing them with
ink, which is a sign that he has not entirely lost his self-respect.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Your reasoning is certainly plausible.&rdquo;

&ldquo;The further points, that he is middle-aged, that his hair is grizzled,
that it has been recently cut, and that he uses lime-cream, are all to be
gathered from a close examination of the lower part of the lining. The lens
discloses a large number of hair-ends, clean cut by the scissors of the barber.
They all appear to be adhesive, and there is a distinct odour of lime-cream.
This dust, you will observe, is not the gritty, grey dust of the street but the
fluffy brown dust of the house, showing that it has been hung up indoors most
of the time, while the marks of moisture upon the inside are proof positive
that the wearer perspired very freely, and could therefore, hardly be in the
best of training.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But his wife&mdash;you said that she had ceased to love him.&rdquo;

&ldquo;This hat has not been brushed for weeks. When I see you, my dear Watson,
with a week&rsquo;s accumulation of dust upon your hat, and when your wife
allows you to go out in such a state, I shall fear that you also have been
unfortunate enough to lose your wife&rsquo;s affection.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But he might be a bachelor.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Nay, he was bringing home the goose as a peace-offering to his wife.
Remember the card upon the bird&rsquo;s leg.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You have an answer to everything. But how on earth do you deduce that
the gas is not laid on in his house?&rdquo;

&ldquo;One tallow stain, or even two, might come by chance; but when I see no
less than five, I think that there can be little doubt that the individual must
be brought into frequent contact with burning tallow&mdash;walks upstairs at
night probably with his hat in one hand and a guttering candle in the other.
Anyhow, he never got tallow-stains from a gas-jet. Are you satisfied?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, it is very ingenious,&rdquo; said I, laughing; &ldquo;but since,
as you said just now, there has been no crime committed, and no harm done save
the loss of a goose, all this seems to be rather a waste of energy.&rdquo;

Sherlock Holmes had opened his mouth to reply, when the door flew open, and
Peterson, the commissionaire, rushed into the apartment with flushed cheeks and
the face of a man who is dazed with astonishment.

&ldquo;The goose, Mr. Holmes! The goose, sir!&rdquo; he gasped.

&ldquo;Eh? What of it, then? Has it returned to life and flapped off through
the kitchen window?&rdquo; Holmes twisted himself round upon the sofa to get a
fairer view of the man&rsquo;s excited face.

&ldquo;See here, sir! See what my wife found in its crop!&rdquo; He held out
his hand and displayed upon the centre of the palm a brilliantly scintillating
blue stone, rather smaller than a bean in size, but of such purity and radiance
that it twinkled like an electric point in the dark hollow of his hand.

Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle. &ldquo;By Jove, Peterson!&rdquo; said
he, &ldquo;this is treasure trove indeed. I suppose you know what you have
got?&rdquo;

&ldquo;A diamond, sir? A precious stone. It cuts into glass as though it were
putty.&rdquo;

&ldquo;It&rsquo;s more than a precious stone. It is *the* precious
stone.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Not the Countess of Morcar&rsquo;s blue carbuncle!&rdquo; I ejaculated.

&ldquo;Precisely so. I ought to know its size and shape, seeing that I have
read the advertisement about it in *The Times* every day lately. It is
absolutely unique, and its value can only be conjectured, but the reward
offered of £ 1000 is certainly not within a twentieth part of the market
price.&rdquo;

&ldquo;A thousand pounds! Great Lord of mercy!&rdquo; The commissionaire
plumped down into a chair and stared from one to the other of us.

&ldquo;That is the reward, and I have reason to know that there are sentimental
considerations in the background which would induce the Countess to part with
half her fortune if she could but recover the gem.&rdquo;

&ldquo;It was lost, if I remember aright, at the Hotel Cosmopolitan,&rdquo; I
remarked.

&ldquo;Precisely so, on December 22nd, just five days ago. John Horner, a
plumber, was accused of having abstracted it from the lady&rsquo;s jewel-case.
The evidence against him was so strong that the case has been referred to the
Assizes. I have some account of the matter here, I believe.&rdquo; He rummaged
amid his newspapers, glancing over the dates, until at last he smoothed one
out, doubled it over, and read the following paragraph:

&ldquo;Hotel Cosmopolitan Jewel Robbery. John Horner, 26, plumber, was brought
up upon the charge of having upon the 22nd inst., abstracted from the
jewel-case of the Countess of Morcar the valuable gem known as the blue
carbuncle. James Ryder, upper-attendant at the hotel, gave his evidence to the
effect that he had shown Horner up to the dressing-room of the Countess of
Morcar upon the day of the robbery in order that he might solder the second bar
of the grate, which was loose. He had remained with Horner some little time,
but had finally been called away. On returning, he found that Horner had
disappeared, that the bureau had been forced open, and that the small morocco
casket in which, as it afterwards transpired, the Countess was accustomed to
keep her jewel, was lying empty upon the dressing-table. Ryder instantly gave
the alarm, and Horner was arrested the same evening; but the stone could not be
found either upon his person or in his rooms. Catherine Cusack, maid to the
Countess, deposed to having heard Ryder&rsquo;s cry of dismay on discovering
the robbery, and to having rushed into the room, where she found matters as
described by the last witness. Inspector Bradstreet, B division, gave evidence
as to the arrest of Horner, who struggled frantically, and protested his
innocence in the strongest terms. Evidence of a previous conviction for robbery
having been given against the prisoner, the magistrate refused to deal
summarily with the offence, but referred it to the Assizes. Horner, who had
shown signs of intense emotion during the proceedings, fainted away at the
conclusion and was carried out of court.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Hum! So much for the police-court,&rdquo; said Holmes thoughtfully,
tossing aside the paper. &ldquo;The question for us now to solve is the
sequence of events leading from a rifled jewel-case at one end to the crop of a
goose in Tottenham Court Road at the other. You see, Watson, our little
deductions have suddenly assumed a much more important and less innocent
aspect. Here is the stone; the stone came from the goose, and the goose came
from Mr. Henry Baker, the gentleman with the bad hat and all the other
characteristics with which I have bored you. So now we must set ourselves very
seriously to finding this gentleman and ascertaining what part he has played in
this little mystery. To do this, we must try the simplest means first, and
these lie undoubtedly in an advertisement in all the evening papers. If this
fail, I shall have recourse to other methods.&rdquo;

&ldquo;What will you say?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Give me a pencil and that slip of paper. Now, then: &lsquo;Found at the
corner of Goodge Street, a goose and a black felt hat. Mr. Henry Baker can have
the same by applying at 6:30 this evening at 221B, Baker Street.&rsquo; That is
clear and concise.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Very. But will he see it?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, he is sure to keep an eye on the papers, since, to a poor man, the
loss was a heavy one. He was clearly so scared by his mischance in breaking the
window and by the approach of Peterson that he thought of nothing but flight,
but since then he must have bitterly regretted the impulse which caused him to
drop his bird. Then, again, the introduction of his name will cause him to see
it, for everyone who knows him will direct his attention to it. Here you are,
Peterson, run down to the advertising agency and have this put in the evening
papers.&rdquo;

&ldquo;In which, sir?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, in the *Globe*, *Star*, *Pall Mall*, *St.
James&rsquo;s Gazette*, *Evening News*, *Standard*, *Echo*,
and any others that occur to you.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Very well, sir. And this stone?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Ah, yes, I shall keep the stone. Thank you. And, I say, Peterson, just
buy a goose on your way back and leave it here with me, for we must have one to
give to this gentleman in place of the one which your family is now
devouring.&rdquo;

When the commissionaire had gone, Holmes took up the stone and held it against
the light. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a bonny thing,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;Just see how
it glints and sparkles. Of course it is a nucleus and focus of crime. Every
good stone is. They are the devil&rsquo;s pet baits. In the larger and older
jewels every facet may stand for a bloody deed. This stone is not yet twenty
years old. It was found in the banks of the Amoy River in southern China and is
remarkable in having every characteristic of the carbuncle, save that it is
blue in shade instead of ruby red. In spite of its youth, it has already a
sinister history. There have been two murders, a vitriol-throwing, a suicide,
and several robberies brought about for the sake of this forty-grain weight of
crystallised charcoal. Who would think that so pretty a toy would be a purveyor
to the gallows and the prison? I&rsquo;ll lock it up in my strong box now and
drop a line to the Countess to say that we have it.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I cannot tell.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, then, do you imagine that this other one, Henry Baker, had
anything to do with the matter?&rdquo;

&ldquo;It is, I think, much more likely that Henry Baker is an absolutely
innocent man, who had no idea that the bird which he was carrying was of
considerably more value than if it were made of solid gold. That, however, I
shall determine by a very simple test if we have an answer to our
advertisement.&rdquo;

&ldquo;And you can do nothing until then?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Nothing.&rdquo;

&ldquo;In that case I shall continue my professional round. But I shall come
back in the evening at the hour you have mentioned, for I should like to see
the solution of so tangled a business.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Very glad to see you. I dine at seven. There is a woodcock, I believe.
By the way, in view of recent occurrences, perhaps I ought to ask Mrs. Hudson
to examine its crop.&rdquo;

I had been delayed at a case, and it was a little after half-past six when I
found myself in Baker Street once more. As I approached the house I saw a tall
man in a Scotch bonnet with a coat which was buttoned up to his chin waiting
outside in the bright semicircle which was thrown from the fanlight. Just as I
arrived the door was opened, and we were shown up together to Holmes&rsquo;
room.

&ldquo;Mr. Henry Baker, I believe,&rdquo; said he, rising from his armchair and
greeting his visitor with the easy air of geniality which he could so readily
assume. &ldquo;Pray take this chair by the fire, Mr. Baker. It is a cold night,
and I observe that your circulation is more adapted for summer than for winter.
Ah, Watson, you have just come at the right time. Is that your hat, Mr.
Baker?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, sir, that is undoubtedly my hat.&rdquo;

He was a large man with rounded shoulders, a massive head, and a broad,
intelligent face, sloping down to a pointed beard of grizzled brown. A touch of
red in nose and cheeks, with a slight tremor of his extended hand, recalled
Holmes&rsquo; surmise as to his habits. His rusty black frock-coat was buttoned
right up in front, with the collar turned up, and his lank wrists protruded
from his sleeves without a sign of cuff or shirt. He spoke in a slow staccato
fashion, choosing his words with care, and gave the impression generally of a
man of learning and letters who had had ill-usage at the hands of fortune.

&ldquo;We have retained these things for some days,&rdquo; said Holmes,
&ldquo;because we expected to see an advertisement from you giving your
address. I am at a loss to know now why you did not advertise.&rdquo;

Our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh. &ldquo;Shillings have not been so
plentiful with me as they once were,&rdquo; he remarked. &ldquo;I had no doubt
that the gang of roughs who assaulted me had carried off both my hat and the
bird. I did not care to spend more money in a hopeless attempt at recovering
them.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Very naturally. By the way, about the bird, we were compelled to eat
it.&rdquo;

&ldquo;To eat it!&rdquo; Our visitor half rose from his chair in his
excitement.

&ldquo;Yes, it would have been of no use to anyone had we not done so. But I
presume that this other goose upon the sideboard, which is about the same
weight and perfectly fresh, will answer your purpose equally well?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, certainly, certainly,&rdquo; answered Mr. Baker with a sigh of
relief.

&ldquo;Of course, we still have the feathers, legs, crop, and so on of your own
bird, so if you wish&mdash;&rdquo;

The man burst into a hearty laugh. &ldquo;They might be useful to me as relics
of my adventure,&rdquo; said he, &ldquo;but beyond that I can hardly see what
use the *disjecta membra* of my late acquaintance are going to be to me.
No, sir, I think that, with your permission, I will confine my attentions to
the excellent bird which I perceive upon the sideboard.&rdquo;

Sherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug of his
shoulders.

&ldquo;There is your hat, then, and there your bird,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;By
the way, would it bore you to tell me where you got the other one from? I am
somewhat of a fowl fancier, and I have seldom seen a better grown goose.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Certainly, sir,&rdquo; said Baker, who had risen and tucked his newly
gained property under his arm. &ldquo;There are a few of us who frequent the
Alpha Inn, near the Museum&mdash;we are to be found in the Museum itself during
the day, you understand. This year our good host, Windigate by name, instituted
a goose club, by which, on consideration of some few pence every week, we were
each to receive a bird at Christmas. My pence were duly paid, and the rest is
familiar to you. I am much indebted to you, sir, for a Scotch bonnet is fitted
neither to my years nor my gravity.&rdquo; With a comical pomposity of manner
he bowed solemnly to both of us and strode off upon his way.

&ldquo;So much for Mr. Henry Baker,&rdquo; said Holmes when he had closed the
door behind him. &ldquo;It is quite certain that he knows nothing whatever
about the matter. Are you hungry, Watson?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Not particularly.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Then I suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper and follow up this
clue while it is still hot.&rdquo;

&ldquo;By all means.&rdquo;

It was a bitter night, so we drew on our ulsters and wrapped cravats about our
throats. Outside, the stars were shining coldly in a cloudless sky, and the
breath of the passers-by blew out into smoke like so many pistol shots. Our
footfalls rang out crisply and loudly as we swung through the doctors&rsquo;
quarter, Wimpole Street, Harley Street, and so through Wigmore Street into
Oxford Street. In a quarter of an hour we were in Bloomsbury at the Alpha Inn,
which is a small public-house at the corner of one of the streets which runs
down into Holborn. Holmes pushed open the door of the private bar and ordered
two glasses of beer from the ruddy-faced, white-aproned landlord.

&ldquo;Your beer should be excellent if it is as good as your geese,&rdquo;
said he.

&ldquo;My geese!&rdquo; The man seemed surprised.

&ldquo;Yes. I was speaking only half an hour ago to Mr. Henry Baker, who was a
member of your goose club.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Ah! yes, I see. But you see, sir, them&rsquo;s not *our*
geese.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Indeed! Whose, then?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Indeed? I know some of them. Which was it?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Breckinridge is his name.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Ah! I don&rsquo;t know him. Well, here&rsquo;s your good health
landlord, and prosperity to your house. Good-night.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Now for Mr. Breckinridge,&rdquo; he continued, buttoning up his coat as
we came out into the frosty air. &ldquo;Remember, Watson that though we have so
homely a thing as a goose at one end of this chain, we have at the other a man
who will certainly get seven years&rsquo; penal servitude unless we can
establish his innocence. It is possible that our inquiry may but confirm his
guilt; but, in any case, we have a line of investigation which has been missed
by the police, and which a singular chance has placed in our hands. Let us
follow it out to the bitter end. Faces to the south, then, and quick
march!&rdquo;

We passed across Holborn, down Endell Street, and so through a zigzag of slums
to Covent Garden Market. One of the largest stalls bore the name of
Breckinridge upon it, and the proprietor a horsey-looking man, with a sharp
face and trim side-whiskers was helping a boy to put up the shutters.

&ldquo;Good-evening. It&rsquo;s a cold night,&rdquo; said Holmes.

The salesman nodded and shot a questioning glance at my companion.

&ldquo;Sold out of geese, I see,&rdquo; continued Holmes, pointing at the bare
slabs of marble.

&ldquo;Let you have five hundred to-morrow morning.&rdquo;

&ldquo;That&rsquo;s no good.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, there are some on the stall with the gas-flare.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Ah, but I was recommended to you.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Who by?&rdquo;

&ldquo;The landlord of the Alpha.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, yes; I sent him a couple of dozen.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Fine birds they were, too. Now where did you get them from?&rdquo;

To my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from the salesman.

&ldquo;Now, then, mister,&rdquo; said he, with his head cocked and his arms
akimbo, &ldquo;what are you driving at? Let&rsquo;s have it straight,
now.&rdquo;

&ldquo;It is straight enough. I should like to know who sold you the geese
which you supplied to the Alpha.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well then, I shan&rsquo;t tell you. So now!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, it is a matter of no importance; but I don&rsquo;t know why you
should be so warm over such a trifle.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Warm! You&rsquo;d be as warm, maybe, if you were as pestered as I am.
When I pay good money for a good article there should be an end of the
business; but it&rsquo;s &lsquo;Where are the geese?&rsquo; and &lsquo;Who did
you sell the geese to?&rsquo; and &lsquo;What will you take for the
geese?&rsquo; One would think they were the only geese in the world, to hear
the fuss that is made over them.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, I have no connection with any other people who have been making
inquiries,&rdquo; said Holmes carelessly. &ldquo;If you won&rsquo;t tell us the
bet is off, that is all. But I&rsquo;m always ready to back my opinion on a
matter of fowls, and I have a fiver on it that the bird I ate is country
bred.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, then, you&rsquo;ve lost your fiver, for it&rsquo;s town
bred,&rdquo; snapped the salesman.

&ldquo;It&rsquo;s nothing of the kind.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I say it is.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t believe it.&rdquo;

&ldquo;D&rsquo;you think you know more about fowls than I, who have handled
them ever since I was a nipper? I tell you, all those birds that went to the
Alpha were town bred.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You&rsquo;ll never persuade me to believe that.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Will you bet, then?&rdquo;

&ldquo;It&rsquo;s merely taking your money, for I know that I am right. But
I&rsquo;ll have a sovereign on with you, just to teach you not to be
obstinate.&rdquo;

The salesman chuckled grimly. &ldquo;Bring me the books, Bill,&rdquo; said he.

The small boy brought round a small thin volume and a great greasy-backed one,
laying them out together beneath the hanging lamp.

&ldquo;Now then, Mr. Cocksure,&rdquo; said the salesman, &ldquo;I thought that
I was out of geese, but before I finish you&rsquo;ll find that there is still
one left in my shop. You see this little book?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well?&rdquo;

&ldquo;That&rsquo;s the list of the folk from whom I buy. D&rsquo;you see?
Well, then, here on this page are the country folk, and the numbers after their
names are where their accounts are in the big ledger. Now, then! You see this
other page in red ink? Well, that is a list of my town suppliers. Now, look at
that third name. Just read it out to me.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Mrs. Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road&mdash;249,&rdquo; read Holmes.

&ldquo;Quite so. Now turn that up in the ledger.&rdquo;

Holmes turned to the page indicated. &ldquo;Here you are, &lsquo;Mrs. Oakshott,
117, Brixton Road, egg and poultry supplier.&rsquo;&rdquo;

&ldquo;Now, then, what&rsquo;s the last entry?&rdquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;December 22nd. Twenty-four geese at 7*s*.
6*d*.&rsquo;&rdquo;

&ldquo;Quite so. There you are. And underneath?&rdquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Sold to Mr. Windigate of the Alpha, at
12*s*.&rsquo;&rdquo;

&ldquo;What have you to say now?&rdquo;

Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined. He drew a sovereign from his pocket
and threw it down upon the slab, turning away with the air of a man whose
disgust is too deep for words. A few yards off he stopped under a lamp-post and
laughed in the hearty, noiseless fashion which was peculiar to him.

&ldquo;When you see a man with whiskers of that cut and the &lsquo;Pink
&rsquo;un&rsquo; protruding out of his pocket, you can always draw him by a
bet,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;I daresay that if I had put £ 100 down in front of
him, that man would not have given me such complete information as was drawn
from him by the idea that he was doing me on a wager. Well, Watson, we are, I
fancy, nearing the end of our quest, and the only point which remains to be
determined is whether we should go on to this Mrs. Oakshott to-night, or
whether we should reserve it for to-morrow. It is clear from what that surly
fellow said that there are others besides ourselves who are anxious about the
matter, and I should&mdash;&rdquo;

His remarks were suddenly cut short by a loud hubbub which broke out from the
stall which we had just left. Turning round we saw a little rat-faced fellow
standing in the centre of the circle of yellow light which was thrown by the
swinging lamp, while Breckinridge, the salesman, framed in the door of his
stall, was shaking his fists fiercely at the cringing figure.

&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve had enough of you and your geese,&rdquo; he shouted. &ldquo;I
wish you were all at the devil together. If you come pestering me any more with
your silly talk I&rsquo;ll set the dog at you. You bring Mrs. Oakshott here and
I&rsquo;ll answer her, but what have you to do with it? Did I buy the geese off
you?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No; but one of them was mine all the same,&rdquo; whined the little man.

&ldquo;Well, then, ask Mrs. Oakshott for it.&rdquo;

&ldquo;She told me to ask you.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, you can ask the King of Proosia, for all I care. I&rsquo;ve had
enough of it. Get out of this!&rdquo; He rushed fiercely forward, and the
inquirer flitted away into the darkness.

&ldquo;Ha! this may save us a visit to Brixton Road,&rdquo; whispered Holmes.
&ldquo;Come with me, and we will see what is to be made of this fellow.&rdquo;
Striding through the scattered knots of people who lounged round the flaring
stalls, my companion speedily overtook the little man and touched him upon the
shoulder. He sprang round, and I could see in the gas-light that every vestige
of colour had been driven from his face.

&ldquo;Who are you, then? What do you want?&rdquo; he asked in a quavering
voice.

&ldquo;You will excuse me,&rdquo; said Holmes blandly, &ldquo;but I could not
help overhearing the questions which you put to the salesman just now. I think
that I could be of assistance to you.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You? Who are you? How could you know anything of the matter?&rdquo;

&ldquo;My name is Sherlock Holmes. It is my business to know what other people
don&rsquo;t know.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But you can know nothing of this?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Excuse me, I know everything of it. You are endeavouring to trace some
geese which were sold by Mrs. Oakshott, of Brixton Road, to a salesman named
Breckinridge, by him in turn to Mr. Windigate, of the Alpha, and by him to his
club, of which Mr. Henry Baker is a member.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, sir, you are the very man whom I have longed to meet,&rdquo; cried
the little fellow with outstretched hands and quivering fingers. &ldquo;I can
hardly explain to you how interested I am in this matter.&rdquo;

Sherlock Holmes hailed a four-wheeler which was passing. &ldquo;In that case we
had better discuss it in a cosy room rather than in this wind-swept
market-place,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;But pray tell me, before we go farther,
who it is that I have the pleasure of assisting.&rdquo;

The man hesitated for an instant. &ldquo;My name is John Robinson,&rdquo; he
answered with a sidelong glance.

&ldquo;No, no; the real name,&rdquo; said Holmes sweetly. &ldquo;It is always
awkward doing business with an alias.&rdquo;

A flush sprang to the white cheeks of the stranger. &ldquo;Well then,&rdquo;
said he, &ldquo;my real name is James Ryder.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Precisely so. Head attendant at the Hotel Cosmopolitan. Pray step into
the cab, and I shall soon be able to tell you everything which you would wish
to know.&rdquo;

The little man stood glancing from one to the other of us with half-frightened,
half-hopeful eyes, as one who is not sure whether he is on the verge of a
windfall or of a catastrophe. Then he stepped into the cab, and in half an hour
we were back in the sitting-room at Baker Street. Nothing had been said during
our drive, but the high, thin breathing of our new companion, and the claspings
and unclaspings of his hands, spoke of the nervous tension within him.

&ldquo;Here we are!&rdquo; said Holmes cheerily as we filed into the room.
&ldquo;The fire looks very seasonable in this weather. You look cold, Mr.
Ryder. Pray take the basket-chair. I will just put on my slippers before we
settle this little matter of yours. Now, then! You want to know what became of
those geese?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, sir.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Or rather, I fancy, of that goose. It was one bird, I imagine in which
you were interested&mdash;white, with a black bar across the tail.&rdquo;

Ryder quivered with emotion. &ldquo;Oh, sir,&rdquo; he cried, &ldquo;can you
tell me where it went to?&rdquo;

&ldquo;It came here.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Here?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, and a most remarkable bird it proved. I don&rsquo;t wonder that you
should take an interest in it. It laid an egg after it was dead&mdash;the
bonniest, brightest little blue egg that ever was seen. I have it here in my
museum.&rdquo;

Our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched the mantelpiece with his right
hand. Holmes unlocked his strong-box and held up the blue carbuncle, which
shone out like a star, with a cold, brilliant, many-pointed radiance. Ryder
stood glaring with a drawn face, uncertain whether to claim or to disown it.

&ldquo;The game&rsquo;s up, Ryder,&rdquo; said Holmes quietly. &ldquo;Hold up,
man, or you&rsquo;ll be into the fire! Give him an arm back into his chair,
Watson. He&rsquo;s not got blood enough to go in for felony with impunity. Give
him a dash of brandy. So! Now he looks a little more human. What a shrimp it
is, to be sure!&rdquo;

For a moment he had staggered and nearly fallen, but the brandy brought a tinge
of colour into his cheeks, and he sat staring with frightened eyes at his
accuser.

&ldquo;I have almost every link in my hands, and all the proofs which I could
possibly need, so there is little which you need tell me. Still, that little
may as well be cleared up to make the case complete. You had heard, Ryder, of
this blue stone of the Countess of Morcar&rsquo;s?&rdquo;

&ldquo;It was Catherine Cusack who told me of it,&rdquo; said he in a crackling
voice.

&ldquo;I see&mdash;her ladyship&rsquo;s waiting-maid. Well, the temptation of
sudden wealth so easily acquired was too much for you, as it has been for
better men before you; but you were not very scrupulous in the means you used.
It seems to me, Ryder, that there is the making of a very pretty villain in
you. You knew that this man Horner, the plumber, had been concerned in some
such matter before, and that suspicion would rest the more readily upon him.
What did you do, then? You made some small job in my lady&rsquo;s
room&mdash;you and your confederate Cusack&mdash;and you managed that he should
be the man sent for. Then, when he had left, you rifled the jewel-case, raised
the alarm, and had this unfortunate man arrested. You then&mdash;&rdquo;

Ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched at my
companion&rsquo;s knees. &ldquo;For God&rsquo;s sake, have mercy!&rdquo; he
shrieked. &ldquo;Think of my father! Of my mother! It would break their hearts.
I never went wrong before! I never will again. I swear it. I&rsquo;ll swear it
on a Bible. Oh, don&rsquo;t bring it into court! For Christ&rsquo;s sake,
don&rsquo;t!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Get back into your chair!&rdquo; said Holmes sternly. &ldquo;It is very
well to cringe and crawl now, but you thought little enough of this poor Horner
in the dock for a crime of which he knew nothing.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I will fly, Mr. Holmes. I will leave the country, sir. Then the charge
against him will break down.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Hum! We will talk about that. And now let us hear a true account of the
next act. How came the stone into the goose, and how came the goose into the
open market? Tell us the truth, for there lies your only hope of safety.&rdquo;

Ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips. &ldquo;I will tell you it just
as it happened, sir,&rdquo; said he. &ldquo;When Horner had been arrested, it
seemed to me that it would be best for me to get away with the stone at once,
for I did not know at what moment the police might not take it into their heads
to search me and my room. There was no place about the hotel where it would be
safe. I went out, as if on some commission, and I made for my sister&rsquo;s
house. She had married a man named Oakshott, and lived in Brixton Road, where
she fattened fowls for the market. All the way there every man I met seemed to
me to be a policeman or a detective; and, for all that it was a cold night, the
sweat was pouring down my face before I came to the Brixton Road. My sister
asked me what was the matter, and why I was so pale; but I told her that I had
been upset by the jewel robbery at the hotel. Then I went into the back yard
and smoked a pipe and wondered what it would be best to do.

&ldquo;I had a friend once called Maudsley, who went to the bad, and has just
been serving his time in Pentonville. One day he had met me, and fell into talk
about the ways of thieves, and how they could get rid of what they stole. I
knew that he would be true to me, for I knew one or two things about him; so I
made up my mind to go right on to Kilburn, where he lived, and take him into my
confidence. He would show me how to turn the stone into money. But how to get
to him in safety? I thought of the agonies I had gone through in coming from
the hotel. I might at any moment be seized and searched, and there would be the
stone in my waistcoat pocket. I was leaning against the wall at the time and
looking at the geese which were waddling about round my feet, and suddenly an
idea came into my head which showed me how I could beat the best detective that
ever lived.

&ldquo;My sister had told me some weeks before that I might have the pick of
her geese for a Christmas present, and I knew that she was always as good as
her word. I would take my goose now, and in it I would carry my stone to
Kilburn. There was a little shed in the yard, and behind this I drove one of
the birds&mdash;a fine big one, white, with a barred tail. I caught it, and
prying its bill open, I thrust the stone down its throat as far as my finger
could reach. The bird gave a gulp, and I felt the stone pass along its gullet
and down into its crop. But the creature flapped and struggled, and out came my
sister to know what was the matter. As I turned to speak to her the brute broke
loose and fluttered off among the others.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Whatever were you doing with that bird, Jem?&rsquo; says
she.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Well,&rsquo; said I, &lsquo;you said you&rsquo;d give me
one for Christmas, and I was feeling which was the fattest.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Oh,&rsquo; says she, &lsquo;we&rsquo;ve set yours aside for
you&mdash;Jem&rsquo;s bird, we call it. It&rsquo;s the big white one over
yonder. There&rsquo;s twenty-six of them, which makes one for you, and one for
us, and two dozen for the market.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Thank you, Maggie,&rsquo; says I; &lsquo;but if it is all
the same to you, I&rsquo;d rather have that one I was handling just now.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;The other is a good three pound heavier,&rsquo; said she,
&lsquo;and we fattened it expressly for you.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Never mind. I&rsquo;ll have the other, and I&rsquo;ll take
it now,&rsquo; said I.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Oh, just as you like,&rsquo; said she, a little huffed.
&lsquo;Which is it you want, then?&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;That white one with the barred tail, right in the middle of
the flock.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Oh, very well. Kill it and take it with you.&rsquo;

&ldquo;Well, I did what she said, Mr. Holmes, and I carried the bird all the
way to Kilburn. I told my pal what I had done, for he was a man that it was
easy to tell a thing like that to. He laughed until he choked, and we got a
knife and opened the goose. My heart turned to water, for there was no sign of
the stone, and I knew that some terrible mistake had occurred. I left the bird,
rushed back to my sister&rsquo;s, and hurried into the back yard. There was not
a bird to be seen there.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Where are they all, Maggie?&rsquo; I cried.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Gone to the dealer&rsquo;s, Jem.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Which dealer&rsquo;s?&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Breckinridge, of Covent Garden.&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;But was there another with a barred tail?&rsquo; I asked,
&lsquo;the same as the one I chose?&rsquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Yes, Jem; there were two barred-tailed ones, and I could
never tell them apart.&rsquo;

&ldquo;Well, then, of course I saw it all, and I ran off as hard as my feet
would carry me to this man Breckinridge; but he had sold the lot at once, and
not one word would he tell me as to where they had gone. You heard him
yourselves to-night. Well, he has always answered me like that. My sister
thinks that I am going mad. Sometimes I think that I am myself. And
now&mdash;and now I am myself a branded thief, without ever having touched the
wealth for which I sold my character. God help me! God help me!&rdquo; He burst
into convulsive sobbing, with his face buried in his hands.

There was a long silence, broken only by his heavy breathing and by the
measured tapping of Sherlock Holmes&rsquo; finger-tips upon the edge of the
table. Then my friend rose and threw open the door.

&ldquo;Get out!&rdquo; said he.

&ldquo;What, sir! Oh, Heaven bless you!&rdquo;

&ldquo;No more words. Get out!&rdquo;

And no more words were needed. There was a rush, a clatter upon the stairs, the
bang of a door, and the crisp rattle of running footfalls from the street.

&ldquo;After all, Watson,&rdquo; said Holmes, reaching up his hand for his clay
pipe, &ldquo;I am not retained by the police to supply their deficiencies. If
Horner were in danger it would be another thing; but this fellow will not
appear against him, and the case must collapse. I suppose that I am commuting a
felony, but it is just possible that I am saving a soul. This fellow will not
go wrong again; he is too terribly frightened. Send him to gaol now, and you
make him a gaol-bird for life. Besides, it is the season of forgiveness. Chance
has put in our way a most singular and whimsical problem, and its solution is
its own reward. If you will have the goodness to touch the bell, Doctor, we
will begin another investigation, in which, also a bird will be the chief
feature.&rdquo;
